
One of the reasons I want to record my stories is that I believe it’s important not just to look at how a person dies, but also to look at how they lived.  Our lives are made up of many different experiences and many different relationships.  These experiences produce joy and sorrow and everything in between.  They mold us into who we are.  I want to share my experiences because they are what God has used to mold me into the person I am today.
So where does my story begin?  
What was it like in the life of George?  
I was born the 4th child in a family of six to Perry Marvin and Barbara Vergean Wood. It was a happy family—one in which we have always loved each other and loved spending time together.  I had a very blessed life growing up: playing football, wrestling, and doing things I loved.  I became a Christian at an early age and was baptized when I was twelve.  
Coming up through school, I knew I wanted to be a mechanic from very early on.  I grew up tearing everything apart so I could see how things worked.  In 8th grade I had to do a career paper, and I did mine on being a mechanic. When I graduated high school, I could have had a football scholarship but chose a full tuition, vocational scholarship in auto mechanics instead.  I attended Larimer County VoTech Center and got a job working part time for Ben's Diesel Service in Timnath, Colorado. 
At one point after I finished VoTech school, I quit Ben and enrolled in a manufacturing program at Colorado State University.  Several of my friends had gone away to college, and I got to thinking maybe I was missing something.  Turns out the only thing was a nice, young lady—who I met through the Baptist student union there—who I later married.  Otherwise, I only lasted three semesters before I quit and went back to working for Ben—doing what I loved.  
After Dianne and I married, there were many changes that took place in our lives.  Ben sold his business, and I ended up taking a job in Longmont as a mechanic at Dalton Truck Sales.  Eventually I became shop foreman for them and took over the service end of the business.  (That was the beginning of my long self-employed experience in life.)  About the same time, we bought our first house and had our first baby.  A few years later, baby number two came, and then baby number three.  That added great joy to my life. 
Over and over again throughout the years, I have seen God’s goodness in my life.  I have seen his hand working in me and in people around me.  And yet, in January of 2014, when I was diagnosed with the neurodegenerative disease, Corticobasal Degeneration—CBD for short—I was forced to grapple with the age-old questions: “Do I really believe and truly trust that God loves me?  Do I believe Romans 8:28 that says, ‘All things work together for good’?”
In the end, I have found that just like David in Psalm 27:13, “I would have despaired unless I had believed that I would see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living,” and I have been encouraged to “Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let [my] heart take courage; Yes wait for the Lord.”  I have found solace in focusing my mind on all that I have to be thankful for as, “The Lord is my strength and my shield; my heart trusts in Him, and I am helped; therefore my heart exults, and with my song I shall thank him” (Psalm 28:7).
The reality is, I have been incredibly blessed.
I have been blessed with a wife for a lifetime.  Not many can say that.  We have stuck together and have helped each other and have loved each other as God would have us do. I am grateful to God for the beautiful gift that she has been to me and continues to be.
I have been blessed to own a business—and earn a living—doing what I love. I have employees who have worked hard to make my business prosper. (They even threw a party to honor me, where people from all areas of my life showed up.  Those same people gave $35,000 to CurePSP for research and to help people with this ailment.)
I have been blessed with an amazing family with whom I’ve been able to enjoy many fun activities over the years: 4-H projects and shooting sports. (I became certified in rifle and pistol through the NRA so I could teach 4H kids.) Fifteen years of Boy Scouts. (I was Scout Master for three.)  Hunting.  Snowmobiling.  Hiking.  Climbing.  Father-daughter/father-son camp-outs with friends.  Trips to our family cabin. 
I have been blessed to be a member of Calvary Church, in Longmont, for 35 years, and have witnessed the embodiment of “Broken people being made new in Jesus, overflowing with gratitude and poured out for others.”  We stayed committed through many hard times and many good times—like a marriage—and in the end it has been a great place to grow, to live, and to learn and serve our Lord Jesus.  Our relationships with people there have been an amazing blessing from God.
But even more than all of that, I have been blessed because God—through Jesus—has made it possible for me not to get what I deserve.  I get to spend eternity with Him.  My identity is not made up of all the wrongs that I have done.  I can have an eternal perspective.  In Romans 8:18 it tells me, this suffering will not compare to the glory that is to come. 
I have been prayed for and many are continuing to pray for my healing.  But so far, the answer has been, “My grace is sufficient…” and it has been.  
God is not done with me yet—So many times I’ve thought I was done!—But he continues to show me his love and his kindness and how—even in a weakened state—you can still have a voice to praise him and direct others to him.  
I am learning to live through the loss of everything I once considered to be me. I once had the prideful, self-sufficient attitude that I could do anything I put my mind to, but this disease has taken all that away.  God is teaching me that my identity is not in what I do, and I am not my disease.  My character and attitude are not determined by my outward circumstances.  I am united with Christ!  I am a child of the King, and I will not be shaken.  I will praise Him until my last breath.
I am blessed!



On Vehicles 
Growing up, I was always disappointed that my Dad wouldn’t let me own my own car.  I think he knew it would be bad for me.  (Either that, or he knew that anything of his that he gave me would be in better condition when he got it back!) 
John Mundell, my sister Marcia’s husband, provided my first vehicle—an old ’48 jeep that needed engine work.  I was fifteen and a half at the time.  I got a manual, took the engine out at the nursery, went through it, rebuilt it, and put it back together.  I drove it for the first year or so after I had my license.  It was great fun, but also ugly.  It had a 30-gallon barrel—cut in half—welded on the hood.  It was ugly but would climb a tree! I had lots of fun in the mountains with it.  One time, Phil Pearson and I took it to the cabin on Pingree Park Road for spring break.  We got snowed in and had a ball—had a ball!  Fishing…  Sledding…  Four wheeling…  Our parents must have gotten worried about us because they showed up the next weekend to check on us.  We were fine.
The next vehicle father let me drive was a ’62 Chevy two-door.  It was also ugly.  The paint was bad and it was rusted out.  That was when I got my first experience painting a vehicle.  I puttied in the rust spots and painted it white with a dark blue top.  Drove that for a while. 
Probably one of my favorite vehicles that Father let me have was a ’50 Chevy pickup.  It had a 235 inline-6 with a four-speed shifter on the floor.  It was great fun to drive, and I had it tuned up so it ran perfect.  But, it needed breaks real bad and Father didn’t want to put the money in it.  So, it got turned into a yard truck for the nursery.  The boys beat it up bad.  I was very sad.
Many times I wanted to buy my own vehicle and Father said no.  The first time I had the money—cash—I found a ’63 Ford Fairlane that I wanted to buy.  It had a 390 with 3 deuces, a manual transmission, and a bunch of frills.  I thought it was pretty neat.  Father wouldn’t even look at it!  I was so mad!  But, he probably saved my life.  
When I did graduate, the first thing I did was buy my own car.  I bought a ’68 Chevy Malibu.  I took a nice, perfect car that got 19-20 miles per gallon and rebuilt the engine full-race and put a Hurst super-shifter with a Muncie close ratio 4-speed transmission in it.  It was very fast.  And, one funny thing: I had to loan it to my Mom one day; when she came back, she said to me, “What did you do to that car?!?”  I eventually got tired of tinkering with it though, and traded it for an 850 Norton High Rider Motorcycle instead.  That started my big biking days.  
I spent most of my dating life on a 900 Kowasaki.  It was very fast, but God protected me in spite of me.  When Dianne and I were dating, we used to love riding; we used to ride all over the place.  One day, we had been riding up the Poudre Canyon and when we got back to Fort Collins, we decided that we still had time to go up to Estes Park and get an ice cream.  So, Gary Goldsmith, Arlene Simms, Dianne and I took off for Estes.  We were driving very wild—zipping in and out of cars—just enjoying the ride.  
We got up to Estes, had our ice cream, and started back.  As we were leaving town, a patrolman started following us.  We behaved as we came out of town until he turned around and went back.  Then we opened it up and came down the canyon.  The only thing is… radio waves are faster than bikes.  The patrolman had radioed another patrolman at the bottom.  He was waiting for us, pulled us over, and gave us tickets. When we heard the first patrolman radio the second patrolman to ask if he needed backup, Gary and I started laughing.  No, that was not necessary!  After he gave us the tickets, the patrolman proceeded to chew us out—big time.  For over a half an hour he ripped on us: how stupid we had been, that he was cleaning accidents up every day in the canyon of people like us who were speeding and being stupid.  
I like to say I'm teachable.  So at the moment, I was feeling very bad, but the next weekend when we went riding again to Estes, we were going the speed limit.  At one point when we came around a corner—a blind corner with a rock wall on the right and a lumber truck stopped in the road making a left-hand turn—we were able to stop with only inches to spare.  We would have been dead if we had been riding the same as the weekend before.  God’s angel in the form of that patrolman saved our lives.  To this day I am thankful to God for our police and sheriff people who are there for our good.

Cooking of the Goose
I dated a lot in high school.  Partly that was due to my Father’s advice: “Don’t be afraid to just take a girl out and show her a good time with no strings attached.” And so, that was my mindset after high school as well.  
When I quit Ben’s Diesel Service to go to CSU and major in manufacturing, I had a friend named Mark Beck who talked me into joining the Southern Baptist campus ministry, “Me Thirds”.  It was a singing group that did something that was very neat, in my opinion.  While there are groups that go around and sing for big churches, this group would go into rural Colorado and sing in small towns—small churches.  They would go and stay with the people of the congregation and sing and preach and then move on to the next town.  Well, they needed some men’s voices, and I enjoyed the music and the people. 
Because it was important to me to date (and eventually marry) someone that shared my values and my faith, I was looking in specific places—like the Me Thirds group—for the type of girl I wanted to spend my life with.  (I grew up in a home where there were differing religious views between my parents and had seen the results.)  I wanted to be able to go to church and worship together.  I wanted to be able to do outdoor activities together.  And, I wanted someone who was not clingy, but would be able to stand on her own.   
At one point, I had just finished building the engine in my car.  I was going to drive to meet the group in Rifle, I think.  Well, the director was kind of a matchmaker.  He suggested that Dianne should come ride with me in the car instead of with the rest of the group.  So she did.  That was the start of our knowledge of each other.  
After spending the weekend with the group, I had to come back Sunday night to work on Monday.  I said my goodbyes and took off pretty late.  As I was driving, my lights started getting dim.  I pulled over into a gas station.  Unfortunately it was closed, and when I crossed over a low curb, the exhaust header caught the curb and jammed up against the oil filter spraying oil onto the hot exhaust.  Smoke came pouring out from under the car.  When I crawled under the car, the filter was not leaking which I didn’t understand.  I continued on home turning the heater off and lights out when there was no traffic—trying to save battery.  I made it home, pulled into the garage and shut the key off.  Then I tried to restart it, and it wouldn’t even click—battery was completely dead.  When I told the story to Dianne, I found out she had had uneasy feelings about me driving back and had stayed up the night praying for my safety.  God answered her prayers.
On another occasion, she needed a ride home, and I volunteered to take her.  She didn’t know at the time I was riding my dirt bike!  When I took her home, I rode right up on the sidewalk and took her right to the door.  She was kinda shook, but it didn’t scare her away!
When I learned that Dianne had signed up for a trip the group was taking to Israel.  I thought it would be good if she met a friend of mine who was studying Hebrew.  So, I went to talk to her about that, and while I was there she invited me to a Valentines Day dinner at her dorm.  (Her floor had a Valentines Day dinner and they had to go with their sister floor to the meal unless they had a date, and so she recruited me to be that date.)  I was pretty shy and often times needed a little encouragement to ask someone new out.  So, It was probably the prompting of her inviting me that started all of this.   A free steak dinner was hard to turn down—my stomach has gotten me into many troubles!—and I said yes even though at that time I didn’t really know her well.  (In fact, I didn’t even know her last name!)  As usual, I was late getting there.  She was beginning to doubt I was coming.  We got the last steaks they had and ate after most everybody was gone.  And that was the start of our relationship.  
The following summer, I was recruited by a representative of the Southwestern Company—the book publisher—and started a new adventure.  I sold books door-to-door in Michigan.  While I was there, Dianne wrote me tons of letters of encouragement that helped sustain me through a very hard job.  
At the end of the summer, she thought I wasn’t coming back.  I had taken my pickup and my motorcycle with me selling books, but at the end of the summer, I had one of my friends drive the pickup back so I could take a trip on the motorcycle.  I rode from Nashville, Tennessee out to the east coast, saw the Smoky Mountains, the Blue Ridge Parkway, and Washington DC.  I made a loop back to Michigan City, Indiana where my Aunt Donna and Uncle Bud lived, and went to Spirit Lake, Iowa and saw my Grandmother Williams before riding home.  Dianne thought I was trying to avoid coming back to her, but that wasn’t true.  I just didn’t communicate—common theme.  
So we continued to date for about three years.  At one time things were getting pretty serious and I told her I wasn’t ready for permanent relationship, and I broke it off.  Didn’t last.  The next week I called her up to take her to a movie. 
Then, one day, a friend of mine from work, John Crutchfield, invited me to go goose hunting.  I had never been before, so I said yes.  It was in December, during the Christmas break from school.  We drove out to Laporte where he had a goose blind set up on his Dad’s property, and I shot my first goose that day.  Of course, the first person I wanted to show was Dianne.  I took this goose—uncleaned and unplucked—took it to her front door and said, “Here, can you cook this?” And she said, “Yes,” So I took it home, dressed it, plucked it, and brought it back to her.  The next day she invited me over for dinner and that was the clincher.  She cooked my goose!
As I headed to her apartment that night, I felt a mix of feelings.  On one hand, I was feeling like God had put us together.  I was looking forward to spending the time with her.  But, I was also feeling anxious about our relationship, feeling like we were getting too close.  But, when I walked into her apartment, I suddenly felt at home.  I was met with the smell of good food—fresh baked things—and I could smell a scented candle.  (She always liked scented candles burning.)  The place was clean and neat because she was an immaculate housekeeper.  And she had very simple, country kind of decorations in the room, like old wooden milk crates.  
She wasn’t done with the meal yet, so I sat in the living room listening to some good music and watching her work in the kitchen.  And it was then that I thought to myself, “This feels pretty good,” and I felt like God was in it.  She loved the Lord and was committed to him, and we were both committed to doing what God had for us. 

Getting Married
We were initially going to wait until Dianne finished school to get married.  But for me—after making the heart change of desiring marriage—it was like, “Why wait? Let’s get married right now!”  So we got married in December while Dianne was on Christmas break.  An added bonus for Dianne was that the church was already decorated.  An added bonus for me was that I got both a wife and a tax deduction before the end of the year.
  It was a simple wedding and we each had a number of close friends and relatives that stood by us.  My youth pastor from First Baptist, Allen Somers, married us.  He was quite the jokester.  When we were rehearsing, he came out with a monster mask and made us all laugh.  We lined up and took a picture with him in the mask.  It was great fun.  But, really, I’ve always felt like I owed him some bonus money since we lasted for so long.  I never did find out what happened to him in later years, but someday I’ll know in heaven.
On our wedding day, I was pretty nervous—not about being married—but more about being in front of all those people.  We were well acquainted with a lot of people, and the church was pretty full.  My family put together food for the rehearsal dinner and one of Dianne’s mentors, Mrs. Ackerman, made our wedding cake.  It was carrot cake—not like your normal wedding cakes, and what I had of it (which was very little) was great. 
We made our commitments before the Lord and the people—committing to live our lives in accordance to his Word and with the prayer and support of the people attending.  We both desired very much to make it work.  In fact, we had talked about every kind of scenario and thought we had every base covered.  We had it all figured out.  Right…
Prior to the ceremony, I arranged for my brother to bring the motorcycle to the church and leave the car hidden a few blocks away.   I was trying to avoid my friends doing something to it, and we thought we were fooling all of ‘em.  (We had done some pretty interesting things to other people getting married—like putting one wheel up on a block so they hopped in and couldn’t go; the wheels just spun—or rigging up a heat sensor on the horn so that when it got hot, the horn would come on and stay on.  Little things like that I was trying to avoid.) But, because they didn’t have a car to decorate, they decorated us with shaving cream as we tried to get away on the bike.  And then they followed us and managed to get the car a little too.  We had to stop and get the windows cleaned off so we could see before we headed to Jackson Hole, Wyoming for our honeymoon. 
The first night we spent at Little America, in Cheyenne, Wyoming.  It was so cold that when we stopped and tried to close the doors, they were frozen and wouldn’t latch.  So, the next day we had to use the seatbelts on the doors to hold them closed until the car warmed up enough to have them latch—was very funny!  We went skiing in Jackson Hole.  It was very cold—60 below—and the pipes froze in the condo we rented.  We had fun though.
*  *  *  *  *
  When we got back from the honeymoon, we were broke.  I had spent all the money I had on the ring and honeymoon.  We hardly had enough for groceries!  We stayed for a couple of nights at my parents’ house, then a few nights at the cabin in Pingree Park before going to housesit for Lee Davis.  (He was headed to Arizona and agreed to let us stay there until Dianne graduated from school.)  I sold my motorcycle, so I would have enough money to pay off some debts that Dianne had.  And, the good thing was, I had a job and made some money.  So, we got along just fine financially.
Relationally, on the other hand, the first few months were rocky.  Dianne was extremely tired and emotional, and the symptoms kept getting worse.  In fact, at one point, I began to think I had made a serious mistake!  As we were waking up one morning, I reached over to tickle her when she hauled off and smacked me!  I really wondered what the heck was going on.  But then, she eventually ended up going to the doctor and found out she had Mono.  That explained a lot.  For her, it was a huge life changer that had lasting effects.  
*  *  *  *  *
After Dianne’s graduation, we moved from Fort Collins to Fort Lupton where we did another housesit for Dianne’s folks until they could get moved to Lake City.  And from Fort Lupton we moved to Longmont, where my business was established (another story), our kids were born, and much of our life was carried out to the present day.  
I always thought I could do very well with 5 or 6 kids.  That number went down the more we had!  But, God blessed us with three.
The first was a beautiful baby girl.  I was the first to get to hold Genessa in the delivery room.  The doctor had an issue with Dianne and so the nurse handed me this bundle and said, "Here, hold on." and there she was.  And I saw the angel kiss on her stomach.  Nobody else saw it initially.  Later, they were wondering where this mark came from and I was the only one that knew that it was there when she was born from the beginning.
Then we had Derrick.  He was a pill from day one!  I remember while he was still in the breadbasket, I would push on Dianne's tummy and he would kick back.  He didn't like pressure.  (Telling sign!)  He struggled with several things at birth, but God brought him through.  He was healthy, happy—and a terror.  He always kept us wondering what was going on in his little head! 
Stephen was a surprise, and Dianne actually announced his upcoming birth on April Fool's day.  At first I wasn’t sure if she was telling the truth or not.  But, then I saw the look on her face and I knew it was the truth.  He was born in December—a beautiful baby and a joy from the beginning.  
I loved my kids greatly.  I loved playing with them and doing things with them.  It did add stress—having three extra mouths to feed and working at a struggling new business venture.  But, God was there for us and we were always able to get by.  (One time we were especially stretched money-wise and someone left $100 in cash on the windshield of our vehicle!)  God always provided for us—sometimes in amazing ways.  


Truck Repair
It was when Dianne and I moved to Longmont, that I began working for Dick Dalton and Chuck Schnorr in the repair shop at Dalton Truck Sales.  Within a couple of years, I was made shop foreman and was running the shop.  It was then that they came to me and asked me if I wanted to own the service end of the business.  (The business was going to be split into three pieces; one was service and the other two were truck sales and trailer sales.)  I had always wanted to be in business for myself—that was a long-term goal—I just didn’t expect it this soon.  So, Dianne and I spent much time praying and thinking about it, wondering if it was God’s will for us.  And we decided that it was.  
I told Dick I wanted to try, and we agreed if it didn’t work we would shake hands and part company.  Dick, had always treated me good, and I didn’t think things would change.  So, when he brought me a contract, and I took it to a lawyer, and the lawyer said, “this is not very good; it doesn’t have any protection for you in here,” I told the lawyer it was ok.  
I should have listened to the lawyer.  
Dianne set up our books and we started by renting the shop space and tools and equipment we needed to function from Daltons.  I agreed to a labor rate of $14/hour for work done for Dick and Chuck.  I didn’t have a lot of business savvy and thought that it would work, but I soon discovered that it didn’t generate enough money to pay the expenses.  So, I went to Dick and said we had a problem. It was then that I found out what was lacking in the contract.  He said, “that sounds like a personal problem; I don’t know what you’re going to do about it.”  It was then that I knew I was in trouble.
In a mad scramble, I set out to generate other work from outside Dalton Truck Sales so we could make it.  I went door-to-door at local farmers and businesses introducing myself and asking for an opportunity to do work for them. We put flyers in mailboxes and cards up in the truck stop.  And, we began to get some outside customers.  One was Mayeda Farms—which turned out to be a life saver on several fronts.  For one, we got work that paid.  And two, they gave us tons of vegetables each time I went to see them.  We would get cases of corn and beans and cauliflower and cabbage, and Dianne was very industrious at freezing, canning, and preserving all those veggies.  That—along with wild game—sustained us during those early years. 
But then I had a new problem. Dick and Chuck didn’t like that I had developed outside customers.  They wanted to be first in line for any work that needed to be done (and, as it turned out, had added this stipulation to a later draft of our contract in addition to removing a repair bay from the lease).   I was left with no choice but to work Dalton’s stuff during regular hours and do outside stuff on my own time in order to make enough money.  
After trying for some time to make a go of it—and putting in much effort—I was starving.  I had a house, and a wife, and a baby to consider.  I decided to call it off.  But, then I discovered that the covenant to not compete was for a 100-mile radius.  That meant that I couldn’t work or be associated with truck repair anywhere from Cheyenne to Colorado Springs.  So, I went back again and requested that they pay me enough so I could move somewhere else.  They said my agreement was done and that I had to be out at the end of the month.  (Because my lease agreement was only a monthly one, it meant that they had fulfilled their part of the contract but I still had to pay all the money to them for purchasing the business.)  So, it was looking pretty dire.  
I was very discouraged and looking for what God would make of this when a friend of mine called and said I needed to go talk to Butch Sekich about a building he had for rent at I-25 and Hwy 66.  So, I went to Sekich Equipment and talked with Butch.  He showed me the little shop.  It was a bare minimum steel building with spray-on insulation inside—very dingy and dark—and all it could hold was 3 trucks.  But it was cheap.  The building had an air compressor, but I would also need tools.   Butch told me about a man who was selling his repair shop and had some tools and equipment for sale.  I went to see the man and he made a deal with me to provide the basic stuff I would need to operate for $7,000.  
So, I went to my folks.  I explained my situation, and my Dad agreed to loan me the $7,000 that I needed to purchase the tools.  I went back to Dalton’s and said, “Fine. I’ll be out at the end of the month.” This shook them up because they thought they had me—they weren't ready to not have a shop.  So they came back and said, “You have to give us 30 days notice,” which actually worked to our advantage.  It gave us 30 days to alert all of our customers about the relocation.  
Another thing—at the time, Sandy Crane was working as a secretary for both Daltons and me.  Dick told her she couldn’t work for both of us.  They assumed she would stop working for me and only work for them.  But, when it came time for her last paycheck, she told them, “I guess we’re done if you meant what you said.” She chose to work for me and they were shocked.  
At that point, I was pretty sure I wasn’t going to get my last check from Daltons for work that I had performed.  So, when we moved, I told Sandy I was going take one of their trucks to the new shop and hold it ransom until we were paid.  After I had taken the truck, I had her to go in to get the check.  They refused to give it to her.  So I drove back to Dalton’s, and Chuck confronted me saying, “Where’s the truck?” And I said, “Where’s my check?”  The next day I had my check and brought the truck back.
After we made the move, several farmers came in and kicked around the new shop and checked me out.  Many said, “we didn’t like ‘down below’ but now that you’re here, we’ll give you a shot.” And it was amazing—we made more money the last quarter of that year than we made in the first three quarters combined at Daltons.  So, that was really the start of business flourishing.  It grew 10%+ each year after that.  
We had two more moves.  After being in the first building for a couple of years, Butch approached me about being a renter in a new building he wanted to put up.  The new space was going to be 4300 square feet—about twice what we had—and would be across the street, about a block away.  
When I went to see him, Butch told me, “Move in.” 
And I said, “I have no money; I can’t pay a down payment or anything.” 
So he asked me, “Can you make it?” 
And I told him, “I don’t know, but I know I can work hard if given the chance.” 
So he said, “Move in.  We’ll work out the details later.” 
Butch set me up.  But that wasn’t the last time he helped me.  After we had moved into the new building and rented it for a period of time, he came to me again and asked if I wanted to own my own building.  He wanted to sell a lot that would help get the business park going by showing some sales.  
Again, I didn’t have the money for the down payment.  And there were other factors that made it hard at the time.  Dianne and I had just had our third child and were living in a very small house of 900 square feet and feeling pretty cramped.  Dianne wanted a bigger house, and I was cheap and wanted lower payments.  (That’s another story.)  But it was while we were in that kind of controversy that I came to her and said I wanted to buy some dirt for $70,000.   It did not go over well!  But, I saw it as God’s hand on us—the possibility of owning and building our own building one day. 
I made an agreement with Butch and started making payments on the land. Eventually, we had enough equity in the land to borrow money against it, and built our own building (which is the present one).  Each year God has blessed us with advancing good business and money, which in turn, has allowed us to live and give and serve people in our community.


Hunting
Hunting was always of interest to me.  When I was very young, we used to go grouse and pheasant and rabbit hunting together as a family.  My Dad did big game, but usually he went with his friends.  And, because it was during football season, I only went with him once for big game. 
One time, we were hunting grouse up Poudre Canyon—behind where Uncle Bill’s cabin was.  I was probably about 10 years old.  We had hiked up the mountain and were hunting in the aspens.  We’d had some luck, but somehow I got separated from my father.  I started to panic and was walking fast, back and forth, second-guessing myself and worried that I was going to be lost forever.  I got to a point where I decided I needed to sit down and think things through.  When I started looking at where I was and looked behind me, my father was sitting on a rock watching me!  He was up above, watching me to see how I reacted.  
I’ve always held on to that, knowing my Heavenly Father watches me with amusement as I scurry back and forth—fearful sometimes—while all along He has my back.  Ever since then, I have also been careful to have maps and a compass and know where I am in the back country… was a very good lesson to learn.
*  *  *  *  *
My first experience with successful big game hunting came when Dianne and I were newly married and had just had Genessa.  A friend, Frank Zartman, invited me to go deer hunting with him in Olathe, Colorado where his Dad lived.  The deer were known to come down into his hay fields and give opportunity for harvest.  So we headed over the mountain.
The next morning, we left our wives and kids at the house and headed up the mountain where the power lines came through above the farm. We split up and I picked a little knob where I had a good view.  I had a 30-30 Model 94 Winchester rifle with open sights.  (The man who had owned it before me had harvested a house-size pile of deer over the years he had it.  He had homesteaded up on the Colorado-Wyoming border.)  It was a nice little gun, and I loved it.  
When, a two-point buck came and stood broadside to me—about 100 yards away—I proceeded to shoot it in the head.  (I had been taught by my father that you shoot them in the head that way you don’t ruin any of the meat.)  But, the deer didn’t go down; it just stood there.  So, I took a second shot, and then it went down like a box of rocks.  I was super excited and went running down the mountain and over to where it was only to be shook up badly when it got up and ran off!  But, I had hit it good enough that it left a blood trail.  I followed it and was able to finish the job.  
Next, I had to figure out how to field dress it.  I had never done a deer before (although I had done tons of rabbits and other things).  When I cut it open, it smelled horrible—like sagebrush.  (I thought it had been eating hay, but apparently much of its diet must have been sagebrush.)  I dressed it out and Frank gave me a hand taking it to the vehicle and back to the house.  
That night, we followed the Zartman tradition of having a meal made up of the camp meat, which was the heart and liver in a stew-kind-of-thing.  The bad part was that when we went to eat it, it smelled and tasted just like the deer smelled when I field dressed it!  I couldn’t eat the stew!  Fortunately, when we got the rest of the meat home, it was way good—very tasty—and was welcome meat for my family.  In fact, Genessa was just getting to the age where she could have some solid food, and when we tried feeding her meat from the baby food jars, she spit it out quickly.  But, when Dianne found a baby food grinder and we ground up some of the venison and tried that, Genessa loved it and couldn’t get enough!  
So, hunting became very important.  I appreciated the fresh meat.  The family loved it as well.  And, I enjoyed hunting and doing that sort of activity.  God blessed me over the years with very, very few where I didn’t get something.
*  *  *  *  *
My first elk came a little later in life.  I had hunted many years with Grandpa Drake and had never had an opportunity to even see an elk up close, let alone shoot at one.  Then one year, Ben Taylor—an old codger who was retired from U-Haul and the father of one of my customers—started hanging out at the shop.  He was bored being retired.  He was quite the character and I enjoyed his elk hunting stories.  He kept inviting me to go with them, so finally I decided to try… and what an adventure that turned into!
We took off on a very snowy day—they liked hunting the late season—and headed to a place called Piney Peak.  We drove three trucks and hauled two horse trailers up the mountain, over Eisenhower, and into Silverthorne before heading north to Kremling.  When we stopped at a gas station in Silverthorne, I had the first experience at trying to put fuel in old Ben’s truck.  The filler neck was underneath the bed, and because it was snowing bad and sleeting, I had to put on a raincoat to crawl under the truck and fill it!  We were also having headlight troubles—they would go out as we were driving down the road—so I was also involved in trying to fix those.  After we made it to Kremling and stopped for breakfast, we drove to a place called ‘Swamp Grass’ where we could park the horse trailers.  Two people rode the horses in to camp while the rest of us drove the trucks.  We had to do three hours of four-wheeling to get to our campsite; the road was extremely rough.  It was a fantastic location though—on the upper edge of an aspen meadow with a trail that went back into the Eagles Nest Wilderness area.  
After we got there, we set up camp. It was a lot of work—a very involved camp that included setting up a 16’ x 32’ army tent and cots and sleeping bags and stoves and everything short of the kitchen sink.  We set up corrals and had to feed and water the horses.   We set up a kitchen with a two-burner hot plate and boxes that were turned on their sides to form cupboards for our supplies.  And, to complete our home away from home, we set up a small round kitchen table and folding chairs.  The only problem: we did not have a wood stove—only a gas box stove for heat.  The first night, it got very cold and the heater didn’t keep up.  My sleeping bag was wanting a little… I was pretty cold that first night.  
The next morning, we fired up the generator and turned on the lights outside and saddled up our horses.  I was way excited.  It was my first hunting camp using horses.  I enjoyed riding, but never considered myself to be a horseman.  Ben allowed me to use one of his horses named Peanut.  Before first light, we rode a couple of miles back in to where we actually started hunting. It was interesting watching as the horses picked their way through brush and rocks in the dark as we moved out.  
At about first light, I was at the back of the pack with old Ben while Dave and his brother, Benny—who were old Ben’s kids—were in front along with some other friends of theirs.  And right off the bat, we got into a herd of elk.  The front guys hopped off their horses and started shooting.  I was slow getting off mine, when I saw Old Ben hop off his horse and land on a rock with his right foot and brake his ankle.  He was lying on the ground in pain, and I went to him to try and help.  He yelled at me, “Don’t worry about me!  Shoot elk!” So, I ran up the hill about 25 yards and looked at the end of the meadow—there was one last cow just running away from me about 200 yards away.  I pulled up and didn’t want to hurt meat, so I aimed at the back of her head and pulled the trigger on my .30-06.  That rifle was and is one very trustworthy, accurate gun; she went down immediately.  I went back and tried to help Ben back up in the saddle.  He was hurting very badly but said he didn’t want to go back to camp.  
So, we rode down and took care of the elk.  We had several down that needed to be field dressed and quartered.  When we were finished, we hung the quarters in the trees in the shade and left them for the night and went back to camp where we enjoyed the beauty and leisure of camp.  After getting cleaned up, we ate a good dinner.  Dave was the main cook, and we always ate very, very well.  And, even with a broken ankle, Old Ben refused to go home.  So, I made him a crutch so he could get around.  
The next day we went out and took the panyards so we could haul the meat back to camp.  On the way, I saw a deer that was hanging out and I had a deer tag also.  So, I shot it too and field dressed it and took it back to camp.  It was a good year!
When we were finished hunting we packed everything up and headed home.  It was bad weather—snowy—and was a mess getting out of there.  I had promised my wife I would come back home, but the final leg of the trip was so full of adversity that at several points, I began to wonder if I was going to make it.  
The first thing that happened was that I was driving Old Ben’s truck when it began to sputter—and then die—about 10 miles out of Silverthorne.  It was out of gas and the others were far ahead of me.  So, I left Ben in the truck and hitchhiked into Silverthorne to get some gas.
When I got to the gas station, I met up with Dave.  His truck had backfired and caught the carb on fire and had melted the linkage on the accelerator pump where the throttle didn’t work.  So, I jury-rigged the carb so it would work again.  (I was shaking my head, in wonder—beginning to think the only reason they brought me along was to fix their stuff!)  
I caught a ride back with one of the others to old Ben’s truck where I put in enough gas to get us to Silverthorne, where I could fill up the rest of the way.  We took off again, and once again I was at the back of the pack.  I made it to I-25 and had just got done leaving Old Ben at his house (where his wife took care of him and took him to the hospital for his broken ankle).  Back on the highway, I was running as fast as I could go when all of a sudden I heard an explosion—one of the tires blew!  The only problem was, we had had a flat going in to camp, so I had no spare.  Once again, I had to resort to hitchhiking.  
When I made it to the nearest gas station, I called Dave at his house. Thankfully, he brought me a spare, we got it changed, and I finally made it home at about 3 o’clock in the morning.  We had started packing up camp at 4 a.m. that morning, so it was a very long day!  Nevertheless, it was very satisfying, knowing that I would have meat through the winter for my family.
*  *  *  *  *
I hunted with the Taylors for many, many years, and every year there were good stories.  Many were very funny.  But the last time I hunted with the Taylor bunch was not so fun.  
By that time, old Ben had gotten cancer and had passed away.  It was also the first year Derrick was old enough to hunt with me, so he was on the trip.  We did our normal—leaving Longmont early in the morning with multiple vehicles and horse trailers and all the paraphernalia we always took. As usual, the trucks were overloaded before even adding all of the elk we were going to bring home.  The weather was nice, and we made it to Kremling in time for breakfast.  Then, we headed over the hill toward Piney Peak and the campsite that we always went to.  At Swamp Grass—I had never done it before—but I asked if I could lead the horses in.  It was a great experience.  I had great fun that morning, riding one horse and leading two others back to the camp spot.  
Unfortunately the person driving my pickup was a dough-head.  The vehicles got there first, and when we arrived with the horses, he explained the troubles he was having.  He had almost torn one of the mirrors off and one of the motor mounts had been broken.  When I checked, I found that he had never put it in low range, which was why it got beat up.  But, we were there for the week.  I took and fashioned a piece of chain that I could bolt onto the outside of the motor mount and secure it down for the trip out.  We got camp set up and made the corrals and started to settle in for the night.  
That evening, two of the new guys that were along decided they wanted to go messing around with their vehicles (which they had leased for the trip).  It turned into a very bad situation.  They drove one truck into a mud bog and buried it clear to the running boards.  Dave refused to help them, so I took my pickup over—it had a big winch on the front—and I proceeded to winch them out of the bog.  I was hoping the whole trip was not going to be that way.  But, unfortunately, it only got worse from there.  We went throughout the week with several more bad situations.  They liked to drink a little too much, and to me, that didn’t go well with hunting.  
When we went out the first morning, I was sitting in a good spot, got lucky, and shot a cow.  But, we still had a bunch of licenses to fill—including Derrick’s—so we kept hunting.  On Wednesday, when we left camp to hunt I was not feeling very good, but went out anyway.  I thought maybe I had gotten some food poisoning.  While the other boys were hunting, I walked back over the edge, and tried to somehow work things out.  But, nothing seemed to help.  I had reoccurring pains in my stomach that kept getting way worse.  
At one point, I heard shooting and discovered that several of the boys had shot elk. Unfortunately, Derrick had not (although, he saw them at least).  By this time, the pain was getting excruciating—in fact, it would put me on the ground.  I helped as best I could with field dressing the elk.  But, the other boys—Dave and Derrick in particular—were worried bad for me.  We were out of cell phone range and there was no way to get help except to ride back to camp and drive to Kremling.  It was several hours worth of horseback riding to get back to camp and another three hours to drive out.  
The pain kept getting worse and worse.  On the way to camp, I would ride a little ways, then get off the horse and walk a little ways, and periodically lay on the ground and writhe in pain.  At one point I told them, “Throw me over the saddle and take me out.”  They refused of course.  But, by the time we arrived in camp, all I could do when the pain hit was get in a crouched position and hold my stomach.  One of the guys volunteered to drive Derrick and I to Kremling.  (Dave and the other boys who stayed behind brought out our stuff and took my meat to be processed.)  It was a very long, hard drive but eventually, we made it.  They admitted me to the hospital in Kremling, and Derrick called Dianne to let her know what was happening.  
At first the doctors thought I was having a heart attack.  But after further checking, they found that not to be the case.  They tried to give me morphine shots for the pain, but they had no effect.  So, they sent me to Denver.  An ambulance was arranged to take us, and Derrick was able to head off Dianne and tell her to meet us at the next hospital.  It was a very long ride.  Each wave of pain was excruciating.  
It was the first of many times that my dear wife had to worry about her crazy husband.  She met me at the hospital and was worried sick over what was happening—as there were lots of questions and very few answers.  I felt bad for putting her through that kind of worry and stress.  
In Denver, the doctors were finally able to help with the pain.  They put me through many tests—trying to figure out what was happening—and the meds they gave me made me feel pretty good.  I was anxious to get out of the hospital, and by this point, wanted desperately to take a shower.  (I still had elk blood on my arms and stunk bad!)  The nurse on duty said that I could—if I would let her help me.  I said, “I don’t need help.”  She said, “That’s the only way.”  So, I said, “ok, nevermind.”  Then, when the next nurse came on duty, I said, “I need a shower.”  She said, “Sure we can do that!”  She taped plastic bags over the IV cords and said, “Have at it!”  That shower felt incredibly good—best maybe in my whole life.  
I didn’t realize how close to death I was that day until the doctors determined that I had a blood disorder that made my blood clot too easily.  (It was an issue that had always been there but was just now becoming a problem that needed to be addressed.)  The pain I had experienced was the result of a clot that completely killed my left kidney.  If the clot would have gone to my heart or brain… it could have been way worse. 
The whole thing was a strong character-building experience for both Derrick and me.  It was sobering for me to realize that God is in control of my life—that my days are numbered (Scripture tells us that our days are numbered from the time we are in the womb.)—and that day, God saw fit to keep me here.  Since then, I have sought to look for the reasons why, and I praise God for his control of my life and the countless number of ways he has preserved me over my years.  
*  *  *  *  *
There are many, many more hunting stories I could relate, but I’d like to highlight a few particularly special ones.  
After losing my kidney, I quit hunting with the Taylor bunch.  Benny Taylor died of cancer and his father, old Ben Taylor, also died of cancer.  The group kind of fell apart.  I also decided that I had killed enough critters and became more interested in spending time with the people I cherished.  Hunting became a family tradition—a time to develop Grandpa/Father/Son relationships.  
The “C” word—cancer—it is one that I have grown to hate.  It has taken away some very special people in my life, including my father-in-law, Carol Drake.  He was a great man whom I enjoyed spending time with.  The sad and joyous last hunt I had with Carol, he had been diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and it was everywhere in him—his bones, his lungs, and also his brain.  The prognosis was not very hopeful.  
That year, he had me put in for deer and elk tags (although they were two different seasons) and made me pledge to come hunt with him.  I wanted to do so badly.  The first season was deer.  Dianne and I made the trip to Lake City, but during the week, Carol did not feel good enough to go out.   We just spent the time together.  I’d give him back rubs and we’d talk.  Still, he made me pledge to come back during elk season, and I agreed.
Elk season was in late November and by then, there was quite a little snow on the ground. It was also getting extremely cold in that country—sometimes reaching 20 below zero at night.  I asked Carol on Friday night if he was up to going out Saturday—opening morning—and he said no, he couldn’t do it.  (I was beginning to fear it would be the same as deer season.)  On Sunday morning, I asked him again, and he said no, he couldn’t do it.  And Monday morning I asked him, and he said no, he couldn’t do it.  But, Tuesday morning I asked him and he said yes, he’d like to go out.  
I got the truck ready and warmed up.  He got dressed in his insulated coveralls and orange.  And, after his rifle was ready to go, we loaded him—with his oxygen bottle—into the pickup and headed out.  Not really expecting to see anything, I drove to a spot where there was a 4-wheel-drive road that went back in the forest.  As we started to pull onto the road, I got stuck in the snow and had to get out to put the chains on.  I was thinking the whole time, “This is crazy… if I get back in there and get stuck and he runs out of oxygen, it could be a very bad situation...” So, I was worrying and sent up a prayer that God would protect us.
I plowed through the two feet of snow on the road and drove back into a meadow overlook.  I pulled the pickup around to where we had a view over the landscape, and as we sat there, we talked.  We talked about spiritual things, and he said to me, “If you know where you’re going, why do we try so hard to stay here?”  Many of our conversations revolved around talking about spiritual things.  Jesus was his Lord and Savior.  Carol was trusting in Him for his heaven-bound journey.  We also enjoyed talking about politics and guns and snowmobiles and trucks and the whole gamut of interests that we had in common.  Unfortunately, we didn’t see any elk (which was probably just as well) and it was time to head back to the house.  
When we hit the highway, I pulled the chains and started driving back toward the house.  And as we were driving, he told me I needed to look up on the hillside as we came around one corner.  He told me, “There’s always a group of elk up there—in around the top.” Sure enough, as we came around the corner, there they were—a group of about 20 or 30 head—up very high on the mountainside.  We sat there and looked at them for a long time until it started to get dark.  And, I told him; “I’ll come back in the morning and put a stalk on them and see if I can harvest an elk for you.”
We got back to the house after dark. Dianne and her Mom were starting to wonder about us, and it was good to be home in a nice warm place.  (Carol & Joanne always kept the stove stoked—it was usually about 80 degrees… or more!)  We had a good meal, and I told him again that I would go out the next morning.  Joanne didn’t understand.  It wasn’t about me; it was about him wanting an elk.  And I wanted badly to help him get it.  
I got up early—at about 4 o’clock—and got all my preparations together: a little snack for lunch, my rifle, bullets, license, and gear.  I loaded up in the pickup and headed back to an area called “The Gate”.  If the elk were still there, I felt like I could hike up the backside of the mountain, come out on the top above them, and maybe have a shot.  I got there in the dark.  The temperature was very cold—28 below zero—the coldest day I have ever hunted.
It was hard going.  The snow was deep and the mountain steep.  But, I was determined to see if I could snag one.  I followed the backside of the ridge and went up… probably a mile (maybe not quite that far, but seemed like it).  When I got to the top, it was beautiful.  First sunlight was just starting to hit the mountain. The snow was unbelievable sparkly—as it is when it’s that cold.  The frost on the edge of the snowflakes caught the light, and it was just beautiful.  
I topped out and looked for a shooting lane.  It was mostly open but I wasn’t sure if the elk were even there.  Then I heard some bugling and squeaking of cows and calves.  So, I waited in a good spot, and sure enough, God brought a cow—a young yearling cow—close enough to me to get a shot.  I took one shot and she dropped… and didn’t move.  I was excited, but now the real work began.  
Being by myself, it was going to be a serious work getting her out.  (I was way glad she was small—not very big.  But still, even a small cow is very heavy.)  As I field dressed her, I frostbit my fingers.  I had to be careful how long I kept them out and exposed.  But, I got the job done.  
Since it was all downhill to the pickup, I decided to drag her out whole. I could use the snow to my advantage.  And so I started dragging.  When I got to the steep part, I rode her down the hill like a toboggan.  From the bottom, I still had about 50 yards to drag her to the pickup.  But, with several rest stops, I got her there and, with much effort, got her thrown in the back of the truck.  
When I drove back to the house, I opened the back of the truck up and made Grandpa look out the window to see his elk.  He spotted it and I shot it.  I took it to the store in town where we the people there process the meat.  Even at that stage, Carol wanted to provide meat for his wife and family.  I was thankful to God for his provision.  
Pig Roasting
One of the things I enjoyed doing over the years was roasting pigs. So, the question is, how did I get started roasting pigs?
One of the areas I served at in church was the area of men’s ministry.  At the time, the women had lots of stuff they did, but the men had nothing.  So, several of us decided that we needed to start something that would give men an opportunity to gather together around spiritual interests.  We called it Man-to-Man.  To begin with, we got together and sent out a survey asking men what would be of interest to them—and got back quite a variety of responses—but for the first meeting we wanted to do an event that would draw all of ‘em in.  So we decided a pig roast would be a good idea.  The problem was, none of us had ever done a pig roast before. I love to barbeque—and it just sounded like a giant barbeque!—so I volunteered along with Stan Sigg to cook the pig.  
We looked around and found a place—Longmont Pack—that would prepare a pig for us—ready to roast—and would rent us a roaster to do it in.  It was a charcoal fired roaster.  We searched around and got instructions for how to do it and on the given day, we started out the night before and put the pig on to cook.  We sat around and talked and watched the pig cook forever.  The next morning, while we were tending it, a man came over to check what we were doing.  He looked at the pig and said, “If you don’t get some heat on this, you’re gonna make everybody sick with raw pork!” So he grabbed the bags of charcoal and filled the roaster sides up.  We really started cooking then.  But, we also started to have a terrible time with grease fires.  We kept putting them out, but they’d start up again—no way to control it.  It was about time for dinner that night, and we were fretting over the pig.  It looked pretty burned.  But, we felt like the guy had given us good advice.  Well, we pulled the pig out of the roaster and it exploded into flames!  By the time we got the fire out, we discovered that we had burned up a good portion of the meat!  We cut out the meat that was edible—and it did taste good and was not greasy—but, we were extremely glad we had corn and beans and all kinds of other stuff to eat because there wasn’t much!
After that experience, I decided there had to be a better way.  So, I scrounged around and found a 275-gallon heating oil drum that was oval shaped.  I felt like I could design my own roaster using propane instead of charcoal.  I cut the barrel in half and welded a 1” pipe frame together to set the pig on along with using old refrigerator racks inside.  I built a bed of lava rock with ports for the burner underneath, made a burner out of 2” exhaust pipe drilled full of holes, and added a gas venturi from a commercial water heater.  It took four good size boys to move the thing, but it could be easily transported on a trailer. 
From then on, I cooked pigs and could maintain the temperature exactly where I wanted.  I got an electronic pyrometer to measure the temperature inside the roaster and used meat thermometers in the meat.  I didn’t take them out until they were perfect.  The pigs would come out golden brown, even the ears and tail—if I used a little tin foil to protect them. I could even do the traditional apple-in-the-mouth. These pigs were a beautiful sight to be seen compared to that first pig I did!  
I found that I liked to cook smaller pigs—they have less grease, less waste—and a nice 150 lb. pig could feed 150 people.  (I did do one that was 220 lbs. dressed, and it was a challenge getting it done without major grease issues.)  But, they all tasted good.  I liked using different wood chunks to flavor the meat—hickory, cherry, and my favorite was mesquite (?).
We did probably 50 pigs in the life of the roaster. We cooked pigs for all different occasions—wedding receptions, graduations, church gatherings, and the sort.  I did one for my parents’ 50th wedding anniversary that was really fun. I did several that I really enjoyed for the Berthoud football team.  Those were fun too.  One boy came through the line and said, “how much can I have?” and I said, “all you want.”  So, he heaped his plate up full of pork and went off happy as a clam.  (The numbers you could feed went down when you were feeding a football team.  I think 60 boys ate a whole pig with not much left!)
The ones for graduations were special.  We did one for Genessa when she graduated with her Ph.D. in organic chemistry.  That was fun.  She had some of her buddies from school come who marveled at eating a pig whole!  They were shocked to see me open the roaster and see the whole pig sitting there looking at them!
Another interesting pig roast was one Stephen volunteered to do for his buddies in Wyoming.  He took the roaster up and had things set up when then called me in a panic and said, “Dad! The pig is still alive!  What do I do?” So, we had to do everything: slaughter it,  burn the hair off with a torch, pour boiling water over it, scrape it as clean possible, and get it in the roaster.  It was kinda ugly, but got the job done (and I believe no one got sick!)  It was a good pig roast, but a lot of work to do it all from start to finish!
Dan Junk and I did several pigs for 4-H activities and also the fire department.  One time, we roasted duel pigs.  We rented one roaster and I had mine.  Well, it was in the winter time, and the rented roaster was gas, and the burner didn’t put out enough heat to cook the pig in the cold weather.  So, I cooked my pig, then put his pig in my cooker and we finished cooking it that way so that we could feed a couple hundred people.  Later on, Dan fashioned his own roaster after mine with some improvements.  He tried the cooking a 250 lb. pig once and had a grease fire that almost burned the whole thing up!  (Another one that helped me many times was Jerry Krutar.  One of the pigs we did for him was Hawaiian style with cross cuts on the back of the pig to put the spices in.  We used sea salt colored with red clay, and the meat came out pink colored.  Very tasty!)  
In the last 10 years of the roaster’s life, I began to use it to cook hamburgers for the annual 4th of July picnic at church.  We could cook 300+ burgers—about 60 burgers at a time—which worked out pretty well.  I was the official cook for a lot of years, but have since handed that off.
I was always going to put wheels under the roaster, but life circumstances happened before I got to it.  Maybe Stephen will get the job done one day.  He has taken over as the pig master.  That’s one thing that will probably become a family heirloom!


Spiritual Gifts
Early on, when Dianne and I got married, we had a desire to be doing the things that God wanted us to do. So, we took a test to help determine what our spiritual gifts were.  The results showed me what I already knew (but made it more clear).  My strengths were: helps (or service), administration, and giving.  And now, it’s interesting to look back at how God used those gifts in my life.  
Owning my own business, I was able to use my spiritual gifts in a very special way.  Obviously, I was able to use my gift of helps to help all kinds of people in their needs of truck repair. And, in doing so, I met and developed relationships with many people from all different walks of life and race and nationality and even sexual orientation. I had the opportunity to serve all of them in a way that honored God, and learned that their spiritual condition was more important than making money.
But, I learned my lesson about about putting first things first the hard way.  It was a Saturday afternoon.  I had been working too many hours—and had been short-changing my family—but I still had a truck that had to go out that night and was working late to get the transmission back together.  I was at the shop by myself when a man came to the door.  He was the driver of one of the other trucks in the shop, and he was looking emotionally destroyed. He had just been fired and had come to get his things out of the truck.  He started pouring out his troubles to me, and the whole time all I could do was think about the fact that every minute I talked to him, I was not getting the other job done.  So, I didn’t pay attention to him and let him walk away.  This man had just been fired.  And his wife had left him.  And he was in bad shape.  And I didn’t talk to him.  I let him go.  Afterwards, I got the truck done, but I regretted missing the opportunity God placed in front of me.  I ignored what God wanted me to do and instead chose what I wanted.  I agonized over that decision for years and tried from that day forward to better prioritize my mind and thinking and actions.
Owning my own business, I also used my gift of administration.  Although it was the most work and strain and stress, dealing with employees and people who worked for me was something I enjoyed.  I have loved these people and have looked at them as being ‘family’ that God has placed under my umbrella; He made it possible for me to have them in my life.  Many of these employees have worked for me long-term.  (One has been with me 32 years!)  And, many have had to go through hard stuff, such that I had opportunities to share the love of Jesus with them.  By my love and care for them, I have been able to demonstrate that Jesus is real and part of my life.
One example of this—a very difficult situation—was when my secretary, Sandy Crane, got cancer and ultimately died from it.  We’d had many, many discussions about God and Jesus, but she was never seeming receptive to Jesus.  And yet, one time she said to me, “I don’t understand how you do it—every time you have need to pay some bills, the money always comes in the mail, just in time!” So, she saw my faith in action.  
When she was diagnosed with breast cancer, we allowed her to work whenever she could and Dianne filled in when she couldn’t.  That way, Sandy could have her job—however it worked.  It was during that time that we got audited by the IRS.  It was one of the most stressful things I’ve ever been through.  There was an agent that came in, who spent three days in my office going through all our records.  Then, they found a problem in one year and that allowed them to do the year before and the year after.  There was one day that Sandy went and had a chemo treatment and then had to come back and deal with the IRS agent.  It was very, very stressful. I had always operated in a straight and legal way,  but was made aware how a simple mistake could put you out of business.  And, the bottom line—and this was an amazing blessing from God—was that they ended up owing me $367.  (But, it wasn’t worth the time it took off my life!)  
A short time after that, Sandy passed away and went to be with the Lord.  In her last days, she didn’t want to talk to me but told me—through her husband—that she had made peace with God and would be waiting for me in heaven.  That was very hard. 
I mentioned that my third spiritual gift was giving, and I could tell many, many stories of situations where we had opportunities to give out of the profit of the business.  We tried to operate correctly with debt and purchases and wisely manage money.  (A huge help to us, was that a friend, Kirk Dameron, sent Dianne and I to a seminar by Larry Burkett that talked about godly management of finances.  We were able to start on the right foot—with both personal and business finances—which was an incredible blessing.) And, it was amazing—as I learned to focus on helping people instead of how much money we made, the profit dealt with itself.  We were able to support campus ministries.  We gave money to the local crisis pregnancy center and our local church and the deacon fund and many other situations where there was need.  Through the profit we did Kingdom good, which made me way happy.
So, it’s interesting to me to look at what God has gifted you with and how it works out in your life.  God used my spiritual gifts to allow my business to flourish.  And God used the business in tremendous ways to help mold me and strengthen my faith and trust in him.  Each month—each day—I had to be dependent on him to see me through.  

Boy Scouts
The second one was administration.  I was never a really good idea person.  I didn’t come up with grandiose plans, but I was a good person if you gave me a job I carried it out to the max of ability.  This came out in Boy Scouts.  I had wonderful opportunity to work with Boys for 15 years and several of those I was scout master.  And did that to the best of my abilities.  And loved seeing squirrely young boys come into the program and exit as quality young men.  I loved seeing boys grow up.  And loved seeing God working in their midst.
One of those experiences came from a 50-mile backpack trip we did in Cimarron New Mexico.  It was at a place called Philmont.  They had a giant camp set up and you backpacked to different campsites where they had different activities for you to do that varied from rock climbing to target shooting even had mule racing and a ropes course and gold panning.  The variety was huge.  And on that trip Derrick was the senior patrol leader.  
We started out in the base camp and had a ranger that went through all our gear and helped us determine what we really needed and what we didn’t.  I was always of the mind to take everything that you could possibly need and my pack was pretty heavy.  After he got done with me, it was down to 47 pounds. We had to also take into account we would have to haul food from site to site also.  They did replenish on the trail.  So, we took off and the first day, I learned something that I have loved to this date.
We took off and started hiking.  One of the boys was our navigator.  He made a mistake at a junction and the ranger with us did not correct it.  So, we hiked for probably half an hour or more and were headed in the wrong direction.  But, discovered it and had to resolve how to deal with that.  Excellent lesson in life.  There is always a detour.  And, after we got turned around, I asked the ranger why he didn’t correct us.  He said, “you’re never lost if you don’t care where you are.” I love that!
Anyway, we made it finally—late—to our first campsite.  We had our activities and things were going pretty well.  Then, about the 3rd day, started having issues between boys.  The older ones did not want to hike at a slow pace to accommodate the slower and younger scouts.  So, they took off on their own and went ahead.  And this broke all the rules.  Derrick had to try and deal with it.  The boys were very headstrong.  And it made it difficult.  In fact, we had a little mutiny between adults and this group of kids.  And had to work through it.  It actually was a very good exercise.  I was excited to see what God was doing.  And then I started getting a toothache.  And it was killing me.  And may face started swelling up badly.  And I was taking advil and it was helping but I was almost out of advil.  
So, I went to see the medical staff and they took one look at me and said I had to go home.  I was furious.  I did NOT want to go home.  And was asking why God? Why would you make me leave? And was very upset.  And had to go back and get my gear and tell the boys I was being pulled out.  They were sad for me.
The following morning as I was driving away, I called Pam Giles who was our contact in case of problems.  Dianne was going to be camping and hiking also.  When I called her, I found out that she was devastated by bad news about her father, Carol.  And, I couldn’t talk to her yet.  But, it became clear that God knew I would not leave the hike without him making me.  The tooth forced me out and it was so that I could be there for Dianne and finding out that her father had cancer.  Very bad news.  So, we both made it to home at about the same time.  And could cry and support each other as this news sunk in.  
I went and got my tooth drained and got some antibiotics.  They couldn’t do anything with it until the swelling went down.  The pain was relieved as soon as they drained it.  
Back to home.  We stayed and comforted each other, but I still felt this burning desire to see how God was working in the boys on this hike.  I discussed it with Dianne and she said it was ok for me to go back and finish the last two days of the hike.  So, I packed up my stuff and headed back to New Mexico and was pleased that I could re-join the boys.  And finish the hike.  It was a great, great time.  
And the rest of the story came later.  After the hike was over, I was having lunch with one of the boys that had issues and needed to work through with him.  And we had lunch at Grandpa’s Café.  And while we were at lunch, someone called from behind that they needed help.  I turned around and an older gentleman was slouched over and his woman companion said he choked and pulled him up and performed the Heimlich maneuver several times and he came back to just in time for the medics to get there.  I was pleased to let them take over.  

Church
After Dianne’s graduation, we moved from Fort Collins to Fort Lupton where we did another house-sit for Dianne’s folks till they could get moved to Lake City.  We were involved in a new start up church—the first day we went to church we were one third of the congregation!  It was a fun and exciting time to see God’s hand moving in our lives.  (One time it was comical: Dianne had a recipe that called for wine.  This church was fundamental Baptist and did not believe in ANY alcohol use.  So, wouldn’t you know it?—Dianne served this dish at a pot luck and the pastor’s wife wanted the recipe!) It was fun when we had baptismal service—we did it in the lake, no formal place.  It was very meaningful.
***
We had an apartment in town on meadow drive.  One in a four-plex.  And we worked hard at getting established and was interesting to see how got directed us at finding a good church.  We attended many churches in the area and after going would compare notes and always had the same impressions and thoughts after we left.  And both had come away feeling very positive about Calvary Baptist church on Gay Street.  And we pretty much immediately got involved with ministry there.  After one of the services, the pastor—Larry Finch—invited us to come to his house after church for lunch.  He did that with new people.  And at that dinner I made the comment that I didn’t see very many young couples and he said, “no, there are many but there’s no Sunday school group for them.”  He said, “why don’t you start one?” and so we did.  Many of those couples we are amazing good friends with to this day.  And those people have been part of our life and encouragers in the faith and amazing people who love the Lord and sought to follow him in the raising of their families and livi
***
I also was able to do church activity and ministry at our local church, Calvary.  I taught Sunday School early on in the children's ministry and also taught adult Sunday School for many years and was able to serve as a deacon and trustee for a time period.  I remember one of the first sunday school classes, a man, Carl Hutchings, my friend and I were teaching a class of -- I think it was four year olds -- and one day of the first days of the quarter we had our lesson plan and brought the kids in and were teaching them a game.  And pretty soon it was total chaos and I told Carl, "Hit the playground!  We've lost control!"  We had a good time and many of those kids are friends to this day.
***
In business, I was always more interested in helping people than just fixing trucks.  I loved mechanical stuff, but it was always about helping people.  And that also came through in church service.  I served on the property committee early on.  And, teaching children’s Sunday school was also done out of service.  It’s much like household chores.  They all need to be done and not everything is fun.  But, is good to take care of the whole and God said he gave a diversity of gifts that we all use to make up the whole and benefit the whole body.
So in church, I served as Sunday School teacher for 3 year olds through 5th grade at different times and later was an Adult Sunday School teacher and led a group for many years.  Also had leadership roles in Men’s ministry and in later years, served as a deacon and also as chairman of the trustees.  And all of this was out of a servant attitude: wanting to serve in a way that God would have me.

Long Term Relationships
One lesson I have learned in my life—from boy scouts and business and church and marriage—is that long-term commitment is where you get to see the benefits of anything you do.  If you only do something short term, you don’t get to see the long-term benefits.  
In Boy Scouts it was very rewarding to see a squirrelly boy come out as a quality young man and many of those relationships have gone on for years.  One boy brought me back a medal from his service in the marines.  And another had brought me some stuff.  And it was through relationships that continued even after scouts was done.  
Was there ever a time that you regretted your involvement with boy scouts?  (or that it seemed not worth the effort?)  
Can you provide an example (or two) of a “squirrelly boy” that eventually became a “quality young man”?
How did God work through your involvement in scouts for “Kingdom good”?
In business, I developed long term relationships with many, many customers.  For example, one truck—a ’72 Peterbuilt owned by Marv Reinharz—I took care of for 30 years.  He turned over 3,000,000 miles on that truck and is still driving it today.  Another one—a ’66 Kenworth owned by Jim Bass—I took care of for about the same time period.  He still uses it every day and has attributed his being in business to me.  (And, an interesting story about that: Here a short time ago, Ryan was driving me up to the cabin where we were going to spend a weekend and close it down for the winter.  As were driving the back road, toward the buckhorn canyon, there was a paving operation going on, and from a mile away, I told Ryan, “I know that truck.  It’s Jim Bass.” And sure enough, we got down there, and it was Jim’s truck, and I could greet him as we drove past. Ryan was amazed at that.)  
Many customers, when they heard that I had CBD, were shocked and very saddened.  But because of the relationships I had developed with them, I was able to talk with them and share my hope—that my future in eternity was secure because of Jesus—and explain what He did on the cross.  Many were asking questions and I was able to share the gospel with them.   
One guy, Steve Steffek—he was a big strong guy who did septic pumping and was very boisterous and outspoken—when he came into the shop and heard about the disease I had, he grabbed me and gave me the biggest bear hug and just hung onto me and was crying.  We went up to the office and talked for half an hour, and I shared my hope and faith with him.  And he understood that God would be my strength and get me through this.  But that was typical of many reactions.
Did you ever regret your involvement with the business?
Can you provide any examples of times when the hard work of relationship-building didn’t seem worth the effort?
Can you provide a story of a customer that came to faith because of your long-term relationship with them?
So, even though the circumstances were dire and awful and not something I would wish on my worst enemy, I was able to use the opportunity to show my joy in the Lord.
*  *  *  *  *
In church long term relationship has been an amazing blessing from God. We have been members of Calvary Church and I have considered it much like a marriage.  We have been through many hard times and many good times and we stayed committed through all of it and in the end it has been a great place to grow to live and to learn and serve our Lord Jesus.  And many of the relationships with people have lasted a lifetime and its consoling to now see they last an eternity.  
I was telling my daughter how I got a group of men who have been mentors and friends and encouragers in the faith who have stood with me and by me through many hard and good times.  And even now, they are tremendous encouragers, showing me God’s love as I struggle through this process of aging rapidly.  And I have been blessed incredibly by having men who love their families, love their wives, and love the Lord and wanted to serve him in whatever areas of their walk in life would support.
And we collectively have encouraged and prayed for and been there through many hard things through death of a child to hard, hard, hard stuff.  But through it all, God has shown himself faithful to be there and strengthen and encourage us through every situation.  And for me that means going through this horrible debilitating disorder called Corticobasal Degeneration.  And they have been there for me encouraging in unbelievable ways and supporting Dianne even while we’re struggling they’re standing in the gap for me.  Thanks be to God for his amazing love and kindness he has showered onto me.
*  *  *  *  *
In terms of long term relationships in marriage, I cannot say how much that has been to me to have been blessed with relationship with my wife for 40 years of dating and marriage we have been together through it all we have struggled through hard and good times and have seen amazing good stuff happen throughout our lives and raising three beautiful, blessed children that are outstanding amazing people that I love dearly.  
There cannot be enough good that comes out of long term loving relationship between two people.  And I have to say, when I heard about an older couple who said young people don’t understand the depth of true love.  Now, after I'm 60 years old, I’m there.
 *  *  *  *  *
Understand that statement that young whipper snappers don’t understand true love and now when I'm 60 I understand the depth of true love is not unlike our Lord sees us as true love of us where he loved us before we loved him.  And he loved us in a way where he was willing to sacrifice all on the line for us so that we had an opportunity to spend eternity with him.
Marriage is an amazing thing that we can participate in.  And, because of our love for each other and our wanting to help others, we had gone through a period of time in our lives when we were struggling and many of the marriages and couples that were friends of our were falling apart and it was breaking our heart.  We were invited to a retreat that was called Marriage TuneUp.  Of course the name attracted me.  We had been to several marriage retreats, but they never seemed to have the right answer or the right something that were to help us.  We had discovered that we were way different than we thought when we first got married.  Was interesting.  We went to this first tuneup as participants and it was revolutionary to me what happened.  They had people that made themselves vulnerable by sharing their stories and how they worked through situations.  And, one area we struggled greatly with was communication between us.  And they taught us how to do something called dialog where we would pick a subject then write individually by ourselved for 15 minutes then get back together and share our writing with the other person.  Then could talk after that.  And I discovered I always would close up when we had hard discussions, but with the dialog method, I could say what I wanted in writing in a way I couldn’t in verbal communication.  And it was amazing how things improved.  And we enjoyed the time away together.  And it was a way God used to help us preserve our marriage.  And we were blessed so much we decided to be part of the tuneup team and we became a couple who made ourselves vulnerable in order to help other improve their marriage.  And saw some amazing results from that.  People are looking for us to be real, not happy clappy, but real with real sharing of our lives, not just living a make believe life.  We did that for several years and continued to grow spiritually and emotionally and relationally and were encouraged by marriages that were helped.

Snowmobiling
So the question is, how did snowmobiling become a family activity that I was enjoying up until my last days? I would like to blame it on my father-in-law, but it actually started before that.  I always loved anything that moved under its own power, and my dad had a couple of snowmobiles—including an old AMF single-cylinder 250—that we used to ride around the nursery.
After I got older and married, there was not much money for that kind of thing.  At one point, I was able to trade something for an old John Deere snowmobile—a 340—but I never had money to take it out trail riding.  We were limited to riding when it snowed enough to use it at the house.  
Then one day, my friend Kirk Dameron approached me.  His dad had two old Polaris machines—one was a 440TX and the other was a 340TX, both of them 1972 models.  (The 440 is still in the garage.) Our agreement was that I would get them running and maintain them so that we could go out and ride together.  We did that pretty often.  It was fun.  And, when the boys got old enough, they rode the heck out of those machines around the house!
That said, early on we didn’t have the money to buy newer machines (i.e., the kind that could be reliably taken deep into the wilderness).  So, a lot of our grander snowmobiling excursions were done in Lake City, where we rode with Grandpa Drake.  He had purchased several snowmobiles and was accustomed to taking groups of people on snowmobiling tours.  He had enough machines that we could all ride together as a family (some riding double), and he took us all over the area down there.  There were three hundred miles of groomed trails that led to amazing scenic overlooks as well as beautiful mountain meadows where we would take turns riding alone—“playing”—in the deep powder.  
As a family, we rode together that way many, many times.  In fact, Stephen was just a baby when we started riding with him.  At first, we would put him in a front pack and take him out with us.  Then, when he got a little older, he would sit in our lap and hold on to the grab bar and we would ride like that.  Sometimes he would fall asleep and his head would hit the kill switch and shut the machine off!  So, from an early age, the boys especially learned to love riding.  It was great fun at Christmas and on long weekends in the winter when we could get away.  
It was later on in life when I finally had the opportunity to buy an Arctic Cat of my own.  It was a 580CC machine and was great—the first of many good machines for us to ride.  The boys and I would go to American Lakes (one of my favorites), or up on Rabbit Ears Pass, or to the Snowy Mountains of Wyoming when we needed a snowmobiling fix.  It was great fun.
At one point, the boys began telling me that I had to meet a family at church who were also snowmobilers.  (It was Greg Cecil and family.)   Then one day, Stephen and I were out riding together.  We were riding out of Gould, headed to American Lakes, and there was a foot of fresh powder to ride in.  It was a really beautiful day.  We took off down on the trail and got off in an area that we couldn’t ride through.  We kept getting stuck and finally gave up and decided to turn around.  We were resting off on the side of the trail when another group began riding toward us.  There was an older man leading the way with young men and boys following behind.  (It looked exactly like when we rode with Grandpa Drake when he would lead us!)  When they got to the spot where we were, they stopped, and when they took off their helmets Stephen said, “It’s Jesse!  It’s Jesse!  This is who I wanted you to meet!”  And sure enough, it was Stephen’s friend Jesse Cecil and his family.  So we rode around the state park together that day and got to know each other.  It was the start of a great relationship with the Cecils and a very memorable ride.  (In fact, Stephen just rode this last week with Cecils and had a great time!)

My favorite machine was a privilege to ride, and it came about in an interesting way.  That year, Dianne lost the diamond out of her wedding ring and set about trying to find it.  She searched the house high and low for the missing diamond.  She looked through everything that she could’ve been around or in; she even went through all the trash!  But it was like a needle in a haystack—worse!—and was nowhere to be found.
Dianne was so hurt by the loss of this diamond.  (I proposed we make a new ring and designed one myself.  It would have three different metals: gold, platinum, and white gold; and we would add a diamond for each year we had been married.  But she still agonized over finding the one she had lost.)  So, she put out a reward.  She said, “Whoever finds the diamond can have a new snowmobile!” That added new motivation by the boys and me to try and find it.  But, after weeks of searching to no avail, the diamond could not be found.
 At the time, we were in the middle of a home improvement project that was also a birthday present for Dianne.  I had given her stones.  (As she likes to say, she was stoned for her birthday!)  We were remodeling the basement to add a stone hearth and stone walls.  Our contractor, Dell Ewing from Dell’s masonry, was doing the work.  He had said to me, “I trust you to fix my trucks in the best way.  You need to trust me and let me do this the right way.” So I trusted him and he did a beautiful job in the basement.  (To this day it’s probably our favorite room in the house.)  Toward the end of the project, we had to move the pellet stove from the floor, back up onto the stone hearth.  After we moved it, I was cleaning the floor underneath where it had been sitting, and I saw something sparkle. I reached down and pulled the shining thing from the mud on the floor only to discover that it was Dianne’s diamond!  Apparently, when she helped me move the stove at the beginning of the project, she scraped the diamond off without knowing it.  

Huge celebration was in store, and Dianne held to her promise of a new snowmobile.  We went out and shopped and found a 2004 Ski-Doo Rav800 that had been settled by a customer of mine. I was able to test drive it before I bought it and it was wonderful to ride.

The first day out on the new machine, Stephen and I were riding up to American Lakes.  It was a beautiful, spectacular day.  The bowls up in American Lakes were covered in fresh powder and gorgeous to behold.  At one point, I took off up a hill.  When I got to where I normally powered out and had to turn around, the new machine was so powerful that it kept going up and up and up and never powered out!  Finally, I reached the rocks at the top, where the snow had fallen off.  I tried to turn, but got stuck in the rocks sideways! Stephen was looking up at me—shaking his head—wondering how he was going to get to me to help keep me from rolling the machine.  Admittedly, I was a little panicked myself!  But I dug the snow out from under the machine on the top side of the hill and got into position. Stephen managed to hike up to me and was able to hold the machine while I got back on, and I was able to ride it back down the hill.  But what a start!  Later Stephen asked me, “What were you thinking?!?” and I could only say that the exuberance of the moment made me forget reason.  That happened a lot with us when we were riding!  We rode the rest of the day and had a fabulous—fabulous—time together. We enjoyed that father-son time greatly, and I thank God for the amazing opportunities I’ve had to enjoy his creation in a winter wonderland. 

Another thing I loved doing with the snowmobiles was use them for ministry.  We offered tours in the Upon the Rock fundraiser silent auction and live auction several years and had great fun taking out groups of people and showing them the beauty of winter in the mountains.  It was great fun to introduce some people for the first time ever snowmobiling and was a great time spent with people outdoors.  We also offered it as a fundraiser for when the two boys had their legs cut off in an auto accident after a school dance in Berthoud.  We offered it as a fundraiser and two guys from Fort Collins bought the package and found out afterward both guys were deaf.  It was a little hard to think about taking someone out who couldn’t hear.  But turned out to be a great, great time we had together.  They had a very good sense of humor and it was the quietest ride up to the mountains I ever had!  But they were chattering away with sign language in the back seat.  We had a nice spring ride and it snowed while we were up there.  We went to go and rode American Lakes.  And it was a very good outing and supported the boys in the process. 

  One of the Upon the Rock fundraiser rides a family from church bought it.  The Liu family, David and Mary Liu.  And we went to Rabbit Ears and had a beautiful day riding with them and their two girls.  And we had a extra bit of excitement on the way home.  It was snowing like crazy when we came over Cameron Pass on the way home.  And the roads were very slick.  I had kids in the back of my pickup and David and Mary were following in their car.  We made it over Cameron with no problem and got down to about Rustic and the roads were better.  So, I slipped the pickup into 2-wheel-drive and was coming down the canyon a little too fast.  And came through the narrows and on the bottom side of the narrows I came around a corner and the trailer broke loose on the slick surface and swung out toward the river and went off the road.  I quickly shifted into 4-wheel and throttled the engine in time to catch it and pull the trailer back onto the road.  All this David and Mary were watching from behind.  I’m sure terrified but the trailer came back up and we continued home.  It wasn’t till the next morning that I saw how bad it could have been.  The passenger side front corner of the trailer had a side door with a step underneath and the step was crunched and showed that two thirds of the trailer had been off the road and God had protected us and was able to not have any serious damage to anyone.  And our vehicles did have one tire that had a bent rim.  Had to change it out and later found out it had damaged the threads on one of the spindles.  But, we were fine with no problems.  And I was thanking God once again for his amazing protection in my life. 

The last ride I did trying to help someone else was taking Craig Keeton Jr. out for a ride.  And it turned out very different than I expected.   Craig had just gotten out of jail and had gone through some very, very hard things in life.  And I had stuck with him and stood up for him and wanted him to succeed.  He had just gotten out of jail and wanted to go for a ride with me.  And a few weeks before that I had blown the engine on my snowmobile which later in this story will tell how that affected the ride.  I wanted badly to spend the time driving up to Rabbit Ears with him riding with me so we could talk.  And we were going with Craig Sr. and a couple of his friends.  We got up early on a Saturday morning and as we typically did, met at Ted’s Place with all of us and drove together up the Poudre Canyon headed to Rabbit Ears Pass to ride.  Craig Jr. rode with me and we had a good time talking as we headed up.  And I was trying to be an encouragement to him.  We were headed to American Lakes, not Rabbit Ears.  We went to Gould and turned and parked on a section of road that the trail came right past.  We offloaded our machines and I chose to ride the old blue 800 skidoo that formerly was Stephen’s machine.  And it had a problem with the throttle, but I thought I could deal with it.  And we took off and for whatever reason, the rest of em let me lead.  I was in the front and Craig Jr. was riding one of my sleds behind me.  We rode back in quite a waise and the state forest service had been cutting a bunch of beetlekill trees in the area.  And they had changed the trail.  And I went to a spot we used often for a short cut and it crossed one gulley but was not bad in the past.  I pulled up to the edge of the gulley.  We all stopped and were taking a breather and look around.  Then we took off and there were some deep tracks that I was trying to avoid.  And I crossed over from the right to the left side of the tracks.  And when I took off the throttle kind of gave a sudden spurt of throttle and with that I gripped the bars stronger and ended up throttling more than I planned.  When the machine took off, I went airborn a little and came down with the right ski hitting the rut and it jolted me to the right which made me hit the throttle more and I went out of control and it launched me off the sled and I went airborn and landed in the bottom of the gulley on a hard surface, no soft snow.  And when I landed on my head and right side, I heard a crunch and crack and had instant pain.  And it knocked the air out of me and Craig Jr. came up behind me and was trying to help me and I couldn’t breathe and it hurt very, very bad.  The worst I’d ever gotten hurt before.  I was laying there moaning and rolling around trying to get a place that didn’t hurt and couldn’t do it.  The others gathered round me and I thought maybe they could walk me back.  We were quite a ways away from the pickup.  And they stood me up and I couldn’t stand the pain.  They had to lay me back down.  We were in an area that had no cell phone coverage.  And no close help.  So I thought about it and decided that the only way out was for me to ride.  They tried putting me behind someone and that did not work.  It hurt too bad.  Then, I decided if they could help me get on a machine, I could ride out and I crawled to the smaller machine and with much help got on it and was able to lean over the handlebars for support and throttle just enough to move and was able to ride back to the pickup and Craig Jr. and Craig Sr. helped with the other guys to get me into the back seat of my pickup and lie down.  Then Craig Sr. drove me down to the hospital in Fort Collins where they took me in the emergency room.  Getting out of the pickup was horrendous painful.  And the thing that hurt worst of all—more than my injuries—was having to call Dianne and tell her I had hurt myself bad.  I made Craig Sr. do the dirty work.  And she came to hospital so my intent and focus was on helping others and it turned out they were help to me.  They preserved my life and got me through a horrendous situation.  I am forever grateful for Craig Sr. and Craig Jr.—great friends who have been there for me when I needed it the most.  And once again God had a perfect opportunity to take me out and he preserved my life.
(This accident on the snowmobile was the first signs of CBD affecting me. I was having balance issues and having trouble controlling my right hand and in particular my right thumb and both the palace and hand coordination affected how I could operate the machine. The time I just didn't know what the problem was. It was the first time I was ever hurt seriously crushed two vertebrae and broken ribs it was the worst thing I put my loving Diane through it was the worst pain I have ever had and I to this day have not recover completely. Diane had bad feelings about how the day would Be butt she didn't know till later how bad it really was.)

Mount Massive
I love climbing mountains.  One of the things about mountains though.  You can't tell how far you've come until you get up where you can look back.  And you look back: you can see how far you have risen.  It's true in life also.  It's hard as you're going along struggling with day-to-day stuff.  But, when you get to a point where you can look back and see God's amazing hand and how he lovingly took care of you all those years.  I feel that is the point I reached on this one special and hard day.
I had been way blessed but had been experiencing some things that I initially thought were just getting old.  But, I wasn't really that old.  My mother was old!  She was still alive and 90 years old and still living on her own.  But, had experienced some things that didn't seem right.  My signature changed.  And, I wondered why that would be.  It had never changed since I was in grade school.  So, I went to see a physical therapist who was my friend also.  He looked at my right hand and told me I needed to go see a neurologist.  It was shocking news.  And the first of many shocking news experience I was about to go through.  
I went to see many doctors after that that were searching for meaning of the symptoms I had lost sense of smell and quit swinging my right arm when I walked and had experienced balance problems which had caused me to crash and fall several times that were out of character for me.  I crashed on my snowmobile and although crashes were a regular thing, it was not regular to get hurt.  I saved the machine but tore my bicep tendon off the bone on my left arm.  Was a very sad day.  And was really sad when I had to come home and tell my wife I was broken.  It was while recovering from that I discovered the other problems and looking back see it was probably the first of many breaks I was going to experience.  
Went to many neurologists and each time they recommended someone else.  I went through carpel tunnel and ulnar nerve surgery to try and help the right hand but they didn't help.  And had gone through many brain scans and cat scans trying to determine where the problem was but nothing showed what was happening.  Finally–I shouldn't say finally–the next step: I was recommended to see a doctor in Denver, Dr. Rajev Kumar whose expertise was Parkinson's.  I had two very good friends–Bill King and Norma Simms–who had parkinson's so I knew very well what it was and what the symptoms were.  So, when I saw Kumar and he told me he felt like I had Parkinson's, it was not necessarily a surprise, but it still was a shock.  And very hard to hear the words come out of his mouth.  But, God had sustained me through many situations up to this point and I trusted him that he would get me through this also.  
I needed though a little head and heart adjustment.  And, Dianne had made plans with Tina, Derrick's wife, to help with getting ready for Ariella's birth.  And, I chose to make a mountain climb that same day.  I was going to climb Mt. Massive, the second highest peak in Colorado.  It's 14,267 feet and right next to Elbert which is the tallest one.  I wanted Massive because it seemed the mountain in front of me was massive.  It took some convincing with Dianne to let me do this by myself.  But, I needed to spend the time alone with God on the mountain.
I started early in the morning.  And driving out there in the early dawn, the sun was not up yet, but there was enough light that fromt he highway you could see this huge mountain.  And I seemed so small compared to it.  I drove back and parked in the trees just as the sun was starting to peek out and there were interesting shadows between the darkness of the forest and the light on the mountainside.  I put my gear and water and food in my pack and hitched up my stuff and started up the trail.  It was a perfect seeming day.  And, it was beautiful.  Next to the stream I hiked little water falls and beautiful stream with moss and rock formations that were fabulous to look at.  There were some slight ups and downs, but wildflowers were out in full bloom.  It was beautiful and I felt like God was telling me, "There are going to be some ups and downs, but you have to look for the beauty and it's there.  Open your eyes."  And I continued on the hike and came to where to trail peeled off to the right and it got steep rather quickly.  I had picked the hardest trail, but the shortest walking distance.  It climbed 3800 feet.  So, obviously, a lot of it was like stair steps walking up through the rocks and much of it was rocky and boulder-y and hard to even tell where the trail was except I discovered there were rock cairns marking the trail and I felt like God was telling me, "It's ok.  This journey you are on, there are others who will help you and guide you through this, others who have been there and know what to expect.  I will be there for you, and you will have help."  That was significant to me.  I thought of my friend Norma who was struggling with Parkinson's.  But, she has been a great encouragement to me.  Watching her as she goes through this.  I continued up the trail and was shocked at one point to have a young man come up behind me and pass me and just was zipping up making me feel pretty old.  But, I kept going.  I also got to a point where I felt like I was being watched, not by people, but just felt like there were eyes on me.  And I got to looking around and there were bunches of pika and marmotts in the rocks watching me.  And this one great big marmott was sitting on a rock and sprawled out with his feet stretched out laying on his stomach and he looked at me like, "what are you doing here, boy?"  I had to laugh.  But I felt like God was telling me, "there are going to be lots of people watching you to see how you go through this.  And that's ok.  It's ok for people to see you in your weakness.  For I am the one who is making you strong."  And that was very reassuring.  Many people when they're in a broken state don't want people to see them.  They want to hide. I wasn't going to hide from anyone or any situation.  I would face this with the strength God would give me.  I continued hiking up the trail and as happens many times, I thought I was getting close to the top.  But, you reach a point where you think it's there then you get there and find there's another point yet to come.  And, at this place, I had my GPS and I had reached the 14,000 foot mark, but still had a ways to go to get to the top.  And the altitude and the drugs that I was already taking had made me dizzy and there was storm looking like it was going to hit me.  And, I had told my wife I would come back.  So, I chose to turn around and go down.  In my younger days, I would never, ever, ever ever have stopped short of the top.  I would have pushed on and done it no matter what.  But, I felt it was right to turn around.  And, I felt like God was telling me, "you aren't going to be able to do things like you've always done and that's ok.  It's ok to turn around.  That was a hard moment.  But, also told me that he would be there with me through it all.
So, I turned around and started down.  The hike down always goes faster than up.
It's good when you can come down and feel good about what you've accomplished.  When I turned around though and went down, it was another one of those moments where you realize how far you've come when you look at where you've come from.  The valley below and seeing Leadville, seeing the plains, seeing the ground I had covered to get there just made me feel ok with doing this this day.  I came down with a great sense of peace knowing that God and others would be there for me no matter what this diagnosis meant.  Little did I know how much each of these insights I had experienced on this climb would mean later on.  One of those was brought forth in August of 2014 when my employees decided to throw an appreciation party for me.  They invited customers and vendors and boy scouts and church and every aspect of my life they invited people to come.  I knew nothing about this and probably would've protested.  I never liked being in front of a crowd.  But, I didn't know it was coming.  And, the day that it happened they had arranged a helicopter ride for Dianne and I.  When we got back from theat there was a limo waiting for us.  I still didn't get it until I got up to the limo and saw all my kids and grandkids waiting for us.  Then I knew something was up and I hoped it was a small gathering.  We drove through town and I was still in awe they were doing this.  The limo stopped at Old Chicago and I thought, "whew! It's a small gathering!" then quickly discovered he didn't know where he was going.  He drove to the convention center and I was worried then, bad.  There were lots of vehicles there.  They drove to the front door where we were ushered in and I was totally blown away when I walked in the door.  There were 550 people waiting for me to get there.  I was blown away.  And it came to me when God had said, "It's ok for people to see you go through this" I didn't realize he meant so many.  And it was an amazing event, with people from all walks of my life.  Not many people get to experience that before they die.  It was an amazing blessing and one of the psalms of David, David said, "While I was in a beseached city, I saw the loving kindness of the Lord."  So, the amazing thing was my body was the beseached city and the lovingkindness was expressed by all these people.  God was showing me his amazing lovingkindness through it all.
Another thing that came from the hike.  How you reach a false summit and still have a mountain yet to climb.  The diagnosis of Parkinson's was a false summit.  
After much testing and trial and error with drugs, we ended up with the thought it was something other than parkinsons and had been recommended we go to Mayo Clinic in Rochester for further testing.  And we made the appointment and went there in December of 2014.  After going through many tests and many movement came away with the final diagnosis in January of Corticobasal Degeneration, CBD for short.  So, the diagnosis of Parkinsons was actually a blessing from God in that we were not given the worst news upfront.  Had time to adjust to the news and could face this worse case diagnosis with a sense of ok and trust that God would continue to take care of me and us.  The hard part was having to tell my children that I had this disease.  That there is no known cause and no known cure and a shortened life expectancy.  All these would be hard on my children who I love to the deepest part of my heart.
So.  Where does that bring me today?  I still am able to see God's amazing hand working in my life and those around me.  My fifth grandchild was born three months ago.  And, I have had the blessings of holding all of them in my arms reading them stories and having fun with them.  God continues to shower his love on me.  
And, just when I thought the worst was over, I fell and broke my hip.  Had to re-evaluate what I thought was the most painful thing you could do.  <laughs>  I've been trying to avoid those, but seem to attract them of late.  And, I thought when I fell this is it.  this is the beginning of the end.  As I lay on the floor.  Had to struggle to get to a phone and it was excruciatingly painful.  I reached the phone and called 911 and a sherrif 'happened'–by God's design–to be driving past and he was here under 2 minutes.  And was able to come in and direct the EMTs when they got here.  And the EMTs were able to help me right away.  There was many close calls after this.  But, God was not done with me yet.  Each time I think I'm done, but he shows me his love and kindness and how even in a weakened state you can still have a voice to praise him and direct others to him.
My daughter sent me a verse out of Psalms 147 that said, "God does not take joy in the legs of a warrior, but in those who trust in him."  That was good news.  Way good news.

There's a start.


Tidbits
In the mean time, business kept growing and things progressed to the point we were able to purchase a piece of ground and eventually put up our own repair shop building.  God blessed us over the years.  We had new customers and new ventures and new adventures together.  We as a family were introduced to snowmobiling and Grandpa and Grandma Drake used to love to have us come and play in the snow with them.  We made many trips to Lake City and enjoyed many times in the mountains together.  Snowmobiling became a passion for Derrick and Stephen.  They love it to this day.  We enjoyed hiking and climbing in the mountains.  Mountains were an important part of our life and we did it as family and father-daughter/father-son camp outs with friends.  Many stories came of those.  That's for another day.  

I have been blessed incredibly over the years.  I look back and I have a wife for a lifetime.  Not many can say that.  We have stuck together and have helped and loved eachother as God would have us do.  We had many great times together.  Trip to Hawaii.  A trip to England.  A trip up the inside passage to Alaska. We experienced many beautiful things together.  And one of my favorite things was spending time at our cabin in the mountains.  It was a peaceful place where you could go and get refreshed.  Sat close to the river and had many, many good times there.  One bad thing though: it always needed work.  I spend hours and hours and hours fixing and repairing things at this crazy place.  But, I loved it.  It was fun.  And the kids have many, many good memories of activities: fishing and hiking and ticks and bears... all kinds of stories have come from the cabin.  It was a very, very memorable place.  

<All about cookies?>  There’s cookies, then there’s other treats.  I was the first real cookie monster.
When I was in 4-H, I entered the cooking and got a blue ribbon for my washboard cookies—soft Peanut butter cookie where you took the fork and imprinted.  Had crunchy peanut butter in it.
<are you a soft/crunchy cookie person?> Soft, but I’ll eat any. They’re best right out of the oven.  Second best right out of the freezer.
